docs/src/index.md, before:

# KernelFunctions.jl

**KernelFunctions.jl** is a general purpose [kernel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-definite_kernel) package.
It aims at providing a flexible framework for creating kernels and manipulating them.
The main goals of this package are:
- **Flexibility**: operations between kernels should be fluid and easy without breaking.
- **Plug-and-play**: including the kernels before/after other steps should be straightforward.
- **Automatic Differentation** compatibility: all kernel functions which _ought_ to be differentiable using AD packages like [ForwardDiff.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ForwardDiff.jl) or [Zygote.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/Zygote.jl) _should_ be.

This package builds on top of lots of excellent existing work in packages such as [MLKernels.jl](https://github.com/trthatcher/MLKernels.jl), [Stheno.jl](https://github.com/willtebbutt/Stheno.jl), [GaussianProcesses.jl](https://github.com/STOR-i/GaussianProcesses.jl), and [AugmentedGaussianProcesses.jl](https://github.com/theogf/AugmentedGaussianProcesses.jl).

See the [User guide](@ref) for a brief introduction.

Commit message:

Update index.md (#435)
* Update index.md

Fixed a typo.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: st-- <st--@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/index.md, after:

# KernelFunctions.jl

**KernelFunctions.jl** is a general purpose [kernel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-definite_kernel) package.
It aims at providing a flexible framework for creating kernels and manipulating them.
The main goals of this package are:
- **Flexibility**: operations between kernels should be fluid and easy without breaking.
- **Plug-and-play**: including the kernels before/after other steps should be straightforward.
- **Automatic Differentiation compatibility**: all kernel functions which _ought_ to be differentiable using AD packages like [ForwardDiff.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ForwardDiff.jl) or [Zygote.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/Zygote.jl) _should_ be.

This package replaces the now-defunct [MLKernels.jl](https://github.com/trthatcher/MLKernels.jl). It incorporates lots of excellent existing work from packages such as [GaussianProcesses.jl](https://github.com/STOR-i/GaussianProcesses.jl), and is used in downstream packages such as [AbstractGPs.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGaussianProcesses/AbstractGPs.jl), [ApproximateGPs.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGaussianProcesses/ApproximateGPs.jl), [Stheno.jl](https://github.com/willtebbutt/Stheno.jl), and [AugmentedGaussianProcesses.jl](https://github.com/theogf/AugmentedGaussianProcesses.jl).

See the [User guide](@ref) for a brief introduction.
