docs/src/userguide.md, before:

# User guide

## Kernel Creation

To create a kernel object, choose one of the pre-implemented kernels, see [Kernel Functions](@ref), or create your own, see [Creating your own kernel](@ref).
For example, a squared exponential kernel is created by
```julia
  k = SqExponentialKernel()
```

!!! tip "How do I set the lengthscale?"
    Instead of having lengthscale(s) for each kernel we use [`Transform`](@ref) objects which act on the inputs before passing them to the kernel. Note that the transforms such as [`ScaleTransform`](@ref) and [`ARDTransform`](@ref) _multiply_ the input by a scale factor, which corresponds to the _inverse_ of the lengthscale.
    For example, a lengthscale of 0.5 is equivalent to premultiplying the input by 2.0, and you can create the corresponding kernel in either of the following equivalent ways:
    ```julia
      k = SqExponentialKernel() ∘ ScaleTransform(2.0)
      k = compose(SqExponentialKernel(), ScaleTransform(2.0))
    ```
    Check the [Input Transforms](@ref input_transforms) page for more details.

!!! tip "How do I set the kernel variance?"
    To premultiply the kernel by a variance, you can use `*` with a scalar number:
    ```julia
      k = 3.0 * SqExponentialKernel()
    ```

!!! tip "How do I use a Mahalanobis kernel?"
    The `MahalanobisKernel(; P=P)`, defined by
    ```math
    k(x, x'; P) = \exp{\big(- (x - x')^\top P (x - x')\big)}
    ```
    for a positive definite matrix $P = Q^\top Q$, was removed in 0.9. Instead you can
    use a squared exponential kernel together with a [`LinearTransform`](@ref) of
    the inputs:
    ```julia
    k = SqExponentialKernel() ∘ LinearTransform(sqrt(2) .* Q)
    ```
    Analogously, you can combine other kernels such as the
    [`PiecewisePolynomialKernel`](@ref) with a [`LinearTransform`](@ref) of the
    inputs to obtain a kernel that is a function of the Mahalanobis distance
    between inputs.

## Using a Kernel Function

To evaluate the kernel function on two vectors you simply call the kernel object:
```julia
k = SqExponentialKernel()
x1 = rand(3)
x2 = rand(3)
k(x1, x2)
```

## Creating a Kernel Matrix

Kernel matrices can be created via the `kernelmatrix` function or `kernelmatrix_diag` for only the diagonal.
For example, for a collection of 10 `Real`-valued inputs:
```julia
k = SqExponentialKernel()
x = rand(10)
kernelmatrix(k, x) # 10x10 matrix
```
If your inputs are multi-dimensional, it is common to represent them as a matrix.
For example
```julia
X = rand(10, 5)
```
However, it is ambiguous whether this represents a collection of 10 5-dimensional row-vectors, or 5 10-dimensional column-vectors.
Therefore, we require users to provide some more information.

You can write `RowVecs(X)` to declare that `X` contains 10 5-dimensional row-vectors, or `ColVecs(X)` to declare that `X` contains 5 10-dimensional column-vectors, then
```julia
kernelmatrix(k, RowVecs(X))  # returns a 10×10 matrix -- each row of X treated as input
kernelmatrix(k, ColVecs(X))  # returns a 5×5 matrix -- each column of X treated as input
```
This is the mechanism used throughout KernelFunctions.jl to handle multi-dimensional inputs.

You can utilise the `obsdim` keyword argument if you prefer:
```julia
kernelmatrix(k, X; obsdim=1) # same as RowVecs(X)
kernelmatrix(k, X; obsdim=2) # same as ColVecs(X)
```
This is similar to the convention used in [Distances.jl](https://github.com/JuliaStats/Distances.jl).

### So what type should I use to represent a collection of inputs?
The central assumption made by KernelFunctions.jl is that all collections of `N` inputs are represented by `AbstractVector`s of length `N`.
Abstraction is then used to ensure that efficiency is retained, `ColVecs` and `RowVecs`
being the most obvious examples of this.

Concretely:
1. For `Real`-valued inputs (scalars), a `Vector{<:Real}` is fine.
1. For vector-valued inputs, consider a `ColVecs` or `RowVecs`.
1. For a new input type, simply represent collections of inputs of this type as an `AbstractVector`.

See [Input Types](@ref) and [Design](@ref) for a more thorough discussion of the
considerations made when this design was adopted.

The `obsdim` kwarg mentioned above is a special case for vector-valued inputs stored in a
matrix.
It is implemented as a lightweight wrapper that constructs either a `RowVecs` or `ColVecs`
from your inputs, and passes this on.



### Output Types

In addition to plain `Matrix`-like output, KernelFunctions.jl supports specific output
types:
- For a positive-definite matrix object of type `PDMat` from [`PDMats.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaStats/PDMats.jl), you can call the following:
```julia
using PDMats
k = SqExponentialKernel()
K = kernelpdmat(k, RowVecs(X)) # PDMat
K = kernelpdmat(k, X; obsdim=1) # PDMat
```
It will create a matrix and in case of bad conditioning will add some diagonal noise until the matrix is considered positive-definite; it will then return a `PDMat` object. For this method to work in your code you need to include `using PDMats` first.
- For a Kronecker matrix, we rely on [`Kronecker.jl`](https://github.com/MichielStock/Kronecker.jl). Here are two examples:
```julia
using Kronecker
x = range(0, 1; length=10)
y = range(0, 1; length=50)
K = kernelkronmat(k, [x, y]) # Kronecker matrix
K = kernelkronmat(k, x, 5) # Kronecker matrix
```
Make sure that `k` is a kernel compatible with such constructions (with `iskroncompatible(k)`). Both methods will return a Kronecker matrix. For those methods to work in your code you need to include `using Kronecker` first.
- For a Nystrom approximation: `kernelmatrix(nystrom(k, X, ρ, obsdim=1))` where `ρ` is the fraction of data samples used in the approximation.

## Composite Kernels

Sums and products of kernels are also valid kernels. They can be created via `KernelSum` and `KernelProduct` or using simple operators `+` and `*`.
For example:
```julia
k1 = SqExponentialKernel()
k2 = Matern32Kernel()
k = 0.5 * k1 + 0.2 * k2 # KernelSum
k = k1 * k2 # KernelProduct
```

## Kernel Parameters

What if you want to differentiate through the kernel parameters? This is easy even in a highly nested structure such as:
```julia
k = (
    0.5 * SqExponentialKernel() * Matern12Kernel() +
    0.2 * (LinearKernel() ∘ ScaleTransform(2.0) + PolynomialKernel())
) ∘ ARDTransform([0.1, 0.5])
```
One can access the named tuple of trainable parameters via `Functors.functor` from `Functors.jl`.
This means that in practice you can implicitly optimize the kernel parameters by calling:
```julia
using Flux
kernelparams = Flux.params(k)
Flux.gradient(kernelparams) do
    # ... some loss function on the kernel ....
end
```

Commit message:

add with_lengthscale to docs

docs/src/userguide.md, after:

# User guide

## Kernel Creation

To create a kernel object, choose one of the pre-implemented kernels, see [Kernel Functions](@ref), or create your own, see [Creating your own kernel](@ref).
For example, a squared exponential kernel is created by
```julia
  k = SqExponentialKernel()
```

!!! tip "How do I set the lengthscale?"
    Instead of having lengthscale(s) for each kernel we use [`Transform`](@ref) objects which act on the inputs before passing them to the kernel. Note that the transforms such as [`ScaleTransform`](@ref) and [`ARDTransform`](@ref) _multiply_ the input by a scale factor, which corresponds to the _inverse_ of the lengthscale.
    For example, a lengthscale of 0.5 is equivalent to premultiplying the input by 2.0, and you can create the corresponding kernel in either of the following equivalent ways:
    ```julia
      k = SqExponentialKernel() ∘ ScaleTransform(2.0)
      k = compose(SqExponentialKernel(), ScaleTransform(2.0))
    ```
    You can also use the convenience function [`with_lengthscale`](@ref):
    ```julia
      k = with_lengthscale(SqExponentialKernel(), 0.5)
    ```
    is equivalent to the manual composition. [`with_lengthscale`](@ref) also works with a vector-valued lengthscales argument for ARD.
    Check the [Input Transforms](@ref input_transforms) page for more details.

!!! tip "How do I set the kernel variance?"
    To premultiply the kernel by a variance, you can use `*` with a scalar number:
    ```julia
      k = 3.0 * SqExponentialKernel()
    ```

!!! tip "How do I use a Mahalanobis kernel?"
    The `MahalanobisKernel(; P=P)`, defined by
    ```math
    k(x, x'; P) = \exp{\big(- (x - x')^\top P (x - x')\big)}
    ```
    for a positive definite matrix $P = Q^\top Q$, was removed in 0.9. Instead you can
    use a squared exponential kernel together with a [`LinearTransform`](@ref) of
    the inputs:
    ```julia
    k = SqExponentialKernel() ∘ LinearTransform(sqrt(2) .* Q)
    ```
    Analogously, you can combine other kernels such as the
    [`PiecewisePolynomialKernel`](@ref) with a [`LinearTransform`](@ref) of the
    inputs to obtain a kernel that is a function of the Mahalanobis distance
    between inputs.

## Using a Kernel Function

To evaluate the kernel function on two vectors you simply call the kernel object:
```julia
k = SqExponentialKernel()
x1 = rand(3)
x2 = rand(3)
k(x1, x2)
```

## Creating a Kernel Matrix

Kernel matrices can be created via the `kernelmatrix` function or `kernelmatrix_diag` for only the diagonal.
For example, for a collection of 10 `Real`-valued inputs:
```julia
k = SqExponentialKernel()
x = rand(10)
kernelmatrix(k, x) # 10x10 matrix
```
If your inputs are multi-dimensional, it is common to represent them as a matrix.
For example
```julia
X = rand(10, 5)
```
However, it is ambiguous whether this represents a collection of 10 5-dimensional row-vectors, or 5 10-dimensional column-vectors.
Therefore, we require users to provide some more information.

You can write `RowVecs(X)` to declare that `X` contains 10 5-dimensional row-vectors, or `ColVecs(X)` to declare that `X` contains 5 10-dimensional column-vectors, then
```julia
kernelmatrix(k, RowVecs(X))  # returns a 10×10 matrix -- each row of X treated as input
kernelmatrix(k, ColVecs(X))  # returns a 5×5 matrix -- each column of X treated as input
```
This is the mechanism used throughout KernelFunctions.jl to handle multi-dimensional inputs.

You can utilise the `obsdim` keyword argument if you prefer:
```julia
kernelmatrix(k, X; obsdim=1) # same as RowVecs(X)
kernelmatrix(k, X; obsdim=2) # same as ColVecs(X)
```
This is similar to the convention used in [Distances.jl](https://github.com/JuliaStats/Distances.jl).

### So what type should I use to represent a collection of inputs?
The central assumption made by KernelFunctions.jl is that all collections of `N` inputs are represented by `AbstractVector`s of length `N`.
Abstraction is then used to ensure that efficiency is retained, `ColVecs` and `RowVecs`
being the most obvious examples of this.

Concretely:
1. For `Real`-valued inputs (scalars), a `Vector{<:Real}` is fine.
1. For vector-valued inputs, consider a `ColVecs` or `RowVecs`.
1. For a new input type, simply represent collections of inputs of this type as an `AbstractVector`.

See [Input Types](@ref) and [Design](@ref) for a more thorough discussion of the
considerations made when this design was adopted.

The `obsdim` kwarg mentioned above is a special case for vector-valued inputs stored in a
matrix.
It is implemented as a lightweight wrapper that constructs either a `RowVecs` or `ColVecs`
from your inputs, and passes this on.



### Output Types

In addition to plain `Matrix`-like output, KernelFunctions.jl supports specific output
types:
- For a positive-definite matrix object of type `PDMat` from [`PDMats.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaStats/PDMats.jl), you can call the following:
```julia
using PDMats
k = SqExponentialKernel()
K = kernelpdmat(k, RowVecs(X)) # PDMat
K = kernelpdmat(k, X; obsdim=1) # PDMat
```
It will create a matrix and in case of bad conditioning will add some diagonal noise until the matrix is considered positive-definite; it will then return a `PDMat` object. For this method to work in your code you need to include `using PDMats` first.
- For a Kronecker matrix, we rely on [`Kronecker.jl`](https://github.com/MichielStock/Kronecker.jl). Here are two examples:
```julia
using Kronecker
x = range(0, 1; length=10)
y = range(0, 1; length=50)
K = kernelkronmat(k, [x, y]) # Kronecker matrix
K = kernelkronmat(k, x, 5) # Kronecker matrix
```
Make sure that `k` is a kernel compatible with such constructions (with `iskroncompatible(k)`). Both methods will return a Kronecker matrix. For those methods to work in your code you need to include `using Kronecker` first.
- For a Nystrom approximation: `kernelmatrix(nystrom(k, X, ρ, obsdim=1))` where `ρ` is the fraction of data samples used in the approximation.

## Composite Kernels

Sums and products of kernels are also valid kernels. They can be created via `KernelSum` and `KernelProduct` or using simple operators `+` and `*`.
For example:
```julia
k1 = SqExponentialKernel()
k2 = Matern32Kernel()
k = 0.5 * k1 + 0.2 * k2 # KernelSum
k = k1 * k2 # KernelProduct
```

## Kernel Parameters

What if you want to differentiate through the kernel parameters? This is easy even in a highly nested structure such as:
```julia
k = (
    0.5 * SqExponentialKernel() * Matern12Kernel() +
    0.2 * (LinearKernel() ∘ ScaleTransform(2.0) + PolynomialKernel())
) ∘ ARDTransform([0.1, 0.5])
```
One can access the named tuple of trainable parameters via `Functors.functor` from `Functors.jl`.
This means that in practice you can implicitly optimize the kernel parameters by calling:
```julia
using Flux
kernelparams = Flux.params(k)
Flux.gradient(kernelparams) do
    # ... some loss function on the kernel ....
end
```
