docs/README.md, before:

# How to build the docs locally

Assuming you are in this (docs/) directory:

Install docs dependencies:
```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```
This will use the last released KernelFunctions.jl for building the docs. 

If instead you want to reflect the local state of the Git repository in your built docs, make sure to change the dependency to the development version:
```bash
julia --project=. -e "using Pkg; Pkg.develop(path=\"/path/to/KernelFunctions.jl/\")"
```
In a bash-like shell on Unix, you can also use the following command from the docs/ directory to get the absolute path:
```bash
julia --project=. -e "using Pkg; Pkg.develop(path=\"$(readlink -f ..)\")"
```
To undo the pinning to the local path by the previous command, run
```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.free("KernelFunctions")'
```

To actually build the docs, run
```bash
julia --project=. make.jl
```
The built docs will be underneath build/, and are best viewed in a browser.

# How to contribute to the docs

## To add additional docs dependencies

```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.add("NewDependency")'
```
and commit the changes to Project.toml

Commit message:

update docs and examples README and ignore examples/README in docs/make.jl

docs/README.md, after:

# How to build the docs locally

Assuming you are in this (docs/) directory:

## Setup

First, make sure the docs dependencies are installed:
```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```
This will use the last *released* KernelFunctions.jl for building the docs. 

If instead you want to reflect the *local* state of the Git repository in your built docs, next change the dependency to the development version:
```bash
julia --project=. -e "using Pkg; Pkg.develop(path=\"/path/to/KernelFunctions.jl/\")"
```
In a bash-like shell on Unix, you can also use the following command from the docs/ directory to get the absolute path:
```bash
julia --project=. -e "using Pkg; Pkg.develop(path=\"$(readlink -f ..)\")"
```

You can undo the pinning to the local path that was created by `Pkg.develop` through running
```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.free("KernelFunctions")'
```

## Build

To actually build the docs, run
```bash
julia --project=. make.jl
```
The built docs will be underneath build/, and are best viewed in a browser.

If you want to iteratively edit and view the docs, it will be faster to re-run from within the same Julia REPL:
```julia
julia> include("make.jl")
```

# How to contribute to the docs

## To add additional docs dependencies

```bash
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.add("NewDependency")'
```
and commit the changes to Project.toml


## To add examples

See [../examples](../examples/README.md)
